# lesson plan \# 1 (CS methods)

## context

Unit question: What does it mean to know a language?

## aim
Understand how Markov chains can be used to generate English text
## do now (8 min.)
[watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jz78fSnBG0s).
Directions:
  * make a prediction: Do you think these are humans or robots speaking?
  * Explain your prediction.

Students share out answers (likely that most will think these are robots,
  both beacuse they sound weird and say things that are 'weird')


## instruction (15 min.)
* When your phone/computer tries to autocomplete a sentence, it's using information about what words are likely to follow other words.
  * If we have the pair of words "I Love...", it's likely to be followed by "you". but it could be followed by something else ("I love to eat greasy pizza").
  * Key idea: if one word appears after another one, there's some chance it will happen again in the future.

* How do we think about this: Introducing Markov chains.

  * You're always in some state. If two states are connected you can move from one to the other. (illustrate on board)

  * Markov chains are 'probablistic'. If you can move to two or more states from a given state, there's some probability assigned to each 'transition'.

  * Illustrate with example: "I hope to talk to Maria" (see image_1_lp_1.jpg).

  * Notice that 'to' can transition to two separate states.

  * What do you think the probability of each transition will be? (50/50, given the data we have)

## activity (18 min.)
* Students work in pairs

* Part \#1: Model how to make a Markov chain for a simple sentence  

  * Each group draws their own state diagram for a sentence (give each group different goofy sentences)

  * when done check in w/ teacher, then move on to next section.

  * How can you 'generate' a random sentence with this model?

* Part \#2 (extension if students get done early): Students are given code for a unigram markov model (see unigram.py)

  * Students trace through code, then answer question: "How is the same info represented in this program as in your diagram?"



## wrap up (7 min)
* Return to big question for discussion: What does it mean to know a langauge? Do you think a Markov chain knows English?
